Add What's New for 8.0 (#8652)
sunpy/sunpy: docs/whatsnew/8.0.rst

.. _whatsnew-8.0:

************************
What's New in sunpy 8.0?
************************

The SunPy Project is pleased to announce the 8.0 release of the ``sunpy`` core package.

On this page, you can read about some of the big changes in this release.

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1

``sunpy`` 8.0 also includes a large number of smaller improvements and bug fixes, which are described in the :ref:`changelog`.

**UPDATE RELEASE NOTES BEFORE RELEASE**

This release of sunpy contains 408 commits in 65 merged pull requests closing 60 issues from 18 people, 7 of which are first-time contributors to sunpy.

* 408 commits have been added since 7.1
* 60 issues have been closed since 7.1
* 65 pull requests have been merged since 7.1
* 18 people have contributed since 7.1
* 7 of which are new contributors

The people who have contributed to the code for this release are:

-  Alasdair Wilson
-  Albert Y. Shih
-  Clément Robert
-  Daragh Hollman  *
-  David Stansby
-  Jonas Sinjan  *
-  JonasSinjan  *
-  Kumar Amityush  *
-  Laura Hayes
-  Manit Singh
-  Nabil Freij
-  Rahul G  *
-  Samuel Bennett
-  Shane Maloney
-  Stuart J. Mumford
-  Will Barnes

> -  jonassinjan  *

Reviewer: Jonas is doen here three times

Author: yeah I'll fixup this list in a separate PR.

* 68 pull requests have been merged since 7.1
* 19 people have contributed since 7.1
* 7 of which are new contributors

The people who have contributed to the code for this release are:

-  Alasdair Wilson
-  Albert Y. Shih
-  Aleksandr Burtovoi  *
-  Clément Robert
-  Daragh M. Hollman  *
-  David Stansby
-  Giovanna Jerse  *
-  Herman le Roux  *
-  Jonas Sinjan  *
-  Kumar Amityush  *
-  Laura Hayes
-  Manit Singh
-  Nabil Freij
-  Rahul Gopalakrishnan
-  Samuel Bennett
-  Shane Maloney
-  Stuart J. Mumford
-  Will Barnes
-  Yaocheng Chen  *

Where a * indicates that this release contains their first contribution to sunpy.

Updates to minimum dependencies
===============================

The minimum required versions of the following packages have been updated:

- asdf >=3.3.0
- asdf-astropy >=0.7.0
- astropy >=7.0.0
- contourpy >=1.3.0
- dask >=2024.6.0
- drms >=0.8.0
- fsspec >=2024.9.0
- glymur >=0.14.0.post1
- h5netcdf >=1.4.0
- h5py >=3.12.0
- lxml >=5.3.0
- matplotlib >=3.10.0
- numpy >=2.0.0
- packaging >=24.2
- pandas >=2.3.0
- parfive >=2.2.0
- reproject >=0.14.0
- requests >=2.33.0
- scikit-image >=0.24.0
- scipy >=1.14.0
- spiceypy >=7.0.0
- tqdm >=4.67.0

> Added support for PHI and Metis Instruments on Solar Orbiter

Reviewer 2: Would we normally say "Added Map sources for PHI and Metis..." rather than support or was there more done.

Author: We put `Added support for new observatories` in the header in 7.1's whats new. :shrug:

Reviewer 2: Ah whatever just leave it then idc :D

- asdf >=3.3.0
- asdf-astropy >=0.7.0
- astropy >=7.0.0
- contourpy >=1.3.0
- dask >=2024.6.0
- drms >=0.8.0
- fsspec >=2024.9.0
- glymur >=0.14.0.post1
- h5netcdf >=1.4.0
- h5py >=3.12.0
- lxml >=5.3.0
- matplotlib >=3.10.0
- numpy >=2.0.0
- packaging >=24.2
- pandas >=2.3.0
- parfive >=2.2.0
- reproject >=0.14.0
- requests >=2.33.0
- scikit-image >=0.24.0
- scipy >=1.14.0
- spiceypy >=7.0.0
- tqdm >=4.67.0

Added support for PHI and Metis Instruments on Solar Orbiter
============================================================

This release adds two new map sources for the Polarimetric and Helioseismic Imager (PHI) and Metis on the Solar Orbiter mission.

.. image:: 8.0-phi-map-inc.png
   :alt: A plot from sunpy of a PHI Map showing a HRT image of magnetic field inclination.

**ADD IMAGES HERE**

Merged Solar Orbiter Archive (SOAR) Fido support into ``sunpy``
===============================================================

The Fido client for the SOAR has been developed for a number of years in the ``sunpy_soar`` affiliated package.
As this has reached a suitable level of maturity, this has now been merged into ``sunpy``.

> The ``sunpy_soar`` package will now be deprecated and no longer developed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``sunpy_soar`` package will now be deprecated, and SOAR support will be maintained within ``sunpy`` core going forward.
```

.. _whatsnew-8.0:

************************
What's New in sunpy 8.0?
************************

The SunPy Project is pleased to announce the 8.0 release of the ``sunpy`` core package.

On this page, you can read about some of the big changes in this release.

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1

``sunpy`` 8.0 also includes a large number of smaller improvements and bug fixes, which are described in the :ref:`changelog`.

> **UPDATE RELEASE NOTES BEFORE RELEASE**

Reviewer: these are the final things to update and then were good to go
